[Music]
you know I've been just about everywhere
a black hole the depths of the Earth's
core my sister-in-law's wedding ooh
scary
but today's journey is especially
dangerous and unusual I want to test my
capsule by going all the way from the
coldest temperature on our planet to the
absolute hottest all right jump in and
I'll tell you a little bit about this
bad boy my capsule is made with a
special material that protects me from
this insane temperature range we're
about to experience Hey without this
cutting-edge technology my journey
wouldn't even last a few seconds because
right now outside my ship it's absolute
zero and to tell you what it's eerie
here it's as if time has Stood Still
usually all atoms vibrate move around
interact and do their daily work of
making up you me and everything else in
the universe they create energy and heat
from all that bouncing around absolute
zero what you're seeing now is the
temperature at which atoms stop moving
completely
so naturally things get really cold zero
degrees Kelvin hence the name that's
minus 459 point 67 degrees Fahrenheit so
I'm glad to be inside this capsule right
now
absolute zero hasn't ever been reached
on earth of course it's purely
theoretical but scientists keep trying
in the lab in 2003 researchers at MIT
managed to slow down sodium atoms with
the help of laser beams as a result they
got the lowest temperature ever recorded
just 1/2 a billionth of a degree above
absolute zero okay so that was just one
little atom surely objects can't get
that cold
it seems my capsule is taking me to a
hot tub size chunk of copper it became
the world record holder for the coldest
thing on earth after scientists chilled
it to an unimaginable - 450 nine point
six five nine degrees Fahrenheit it was
just six thousandths of a degree above
absolute zero
so yeah the atoms in this chunk of
copper almost stop moving
good thing my capsule can that is that
an icicle on my nose I say that's a
clear sign to move on
- 458 degrees Fahrenheit we've
officially reached one Kelvin
I can't imagine I'll find anything
interesting this far on the cold side of
the scale but what's that thing moving
over there is it alive get a little
closer and you'll see it's a tardigrade
also called a moss piglet or water bear
this microscopic animal might look cute
but they're pretty much indestructible
they can survive under layers of solid
ice in stone walls and even outer space
now that we passed a - 458 degrees
helium can maintain its gaseous state
also known as it melts into a liquid at
that temperature helium has a way lower
density than air which makes the gas
rise yep that's why your helium-filled
balloons float above your head - 361
degrees Fahrenheit we're gonna need to
be extremely careful now because I'm
moving through the temperature where
oxygen melts into a liquid I don't know
about you but I can't breathe it like
that so let's get out of here ah a bit
warmer and at minus 297 degrees
Fahrenheit oxygen starts to boil my
lungs can't work with that either
moving right along and far away from
this danger zone oh I imagine there will
be plenty more sure hope nothing happens
to my ship if I could go to the Dark
Side of the Moon right now my equipment
would be showing a freezing temperature
of minus 280 degrees
think I'll stay right here on earth now
my equipment is showing minus 128
degrees ah I see it's the world record
for the coldest air temperature recorded
at ground level it happened on July 21st
1983 at the then Soviet Vostok station
in Antarctica speaking of the Russians
the coldest habitable place on our
planet is the village of Amaya Khan in
you guessed it Russia On January 26 19
26 the temperature dropped to a
staggering minus 96 degrees Fahrenheit
that's even colder than the average
temperature on Mars my equipment is
showing minus 80 degrees and it reminds
me of the coldest temperature ever
recorded in the US it probably also
comes as no surprise that it happened in
Prospect Creek Alaska on January 23rd
1971 by the way what was the coldest
temperature you've ever experienced and
where was it let me know down in the
comments oh look I've reached the most
unusual part of my journey it's the
point where the Fahrenheit and Celsius
temperature scales meet exactly minus 40
degrees Fahrenheit and minus 40 degrees
Celsius whoo well if they're still too
cold for me I guess I have a lot in
common with my phone it doesn't like
extreme temperatures either at minus 24
degrees Fahrenheit the most cold
resistance cell phone starts to work
again if I didn't have my ice cream in
the freezer it'd be melting right now
it's 5 degrees Fahrenheit outside and
that's when some kinds of the cold treat
start to turn into liquid disappointment
at 32 degrees Fahrenheit I'm going
through the area where ice turns into
water
I can see snowmen melting out there
sorry guys no room in the freezer
it's full of ice cream at least my
capsule is thawing out a bit though
going further and I see the temperature
is 55 point four degrees Fahrenheit it's
a shocking number because it refers to
the lowest human body temperature ever
recorded but the real surprise is that
this person survived and made a full
recovery or hop though wonders of a
human body
I'm sure you know that 98.6 degrees
Fahrenheit is the normal body
temperature for a healthy person
anything below 95 and your hypothermic
if it's above 104 then the body gets
fried down to the enzymes yes
my next stop is even hotter than that at
115 degrees that's the highest human
body temperature ever recorded on July
10th 1980 a 52 year old man was brought
to the hospital with heatstroke luckily
he survived too and made it to the
Guinness Book of World Records moving
out of the human body range I've arrived
in the 159 point three degree mark which
is the highest surface temperature ever
recorded on earth
it happened in 2005 in Iran's loot
desert from the desert to the ocean I
can now see underwater hydrothermal
vents out there and will you look at
that
Pompeii works these creatures were named
after the famous city of Pompeii for a
reason they can withstand incredible
temperatures of about 176 degrees
besides tardigrades hello again these
are the most pink tolerant animals on
earth whoa what's going on my castle is
bouncing and jerking it's like I'm
riding on a bumpy road or something
can't get to the signalization switch Oh
Oh is this it has my capsule finally
given up on me I'm sorry I have to put
you through so much just please don't
give up on me now
knock down here at the bottom of the
ocean oh it was the water it started
boiling oh I see we reach 212 degrees
Fahrenheit that's when water begins to
bubble
whoo almost lost my cool but not quite
just a couple of seconds later and my
capsule is traveling through a
temperature of 257 degrees Fahrenheit
that's when any Intel CPU processor
automatically shuts down keep your
computer away from such temperatures
folks well what was that sounded like a
sonic boom ah it was a Concorde flyby
the maximum temperature of the nose tip
of this supersonic airliner can reach
260 degrees Fahrenheit too bad you can't
fly faster than the speed of sound on
one of these anymore
they stop carrying passengers back into
three is that tardigrades again sheesh
fellas it's 303 degrees out there hey
when I said these microscopic bear pig
things are indestructible
i manned it at 674 degrees mercury
starts boiling and isn't it a beautiful
sight something silvery outlandish and
extremely toxic just bubbling right
outside my capsule as you can see my
journey is getting more and more
dangerous by the minute how about I take
it somewhere less threatening hey do you
really think the Formula one circuit is
a safer place anyway since I'm here I'll
tell you that the brake pads on a
Formula One race car can reach a truly
terrifying temperature of one thousand
three hundred eighty degrees right now I
see some burning woods around my capsule
and it means that the temperature has
skyrocket to 1,800 degrees but the heat
from this fire is still colder than the
hottest part of a candle flame which can
reach a pretty alarming 1830 degrees
note to self never touch candles the
next temperature stop is 1900 degrees
and it measures the heat of a volcanic
eruption
well the lava spewing out of it to be
precise and if I dive deeper into this
volcano I mean all the way down to the
Earth's core the equipment will show me
a temperature of ten thousand eight
hundred degrees Fahrenheit that's how
hot the core of our planet is way to go
earth it's hotter than the surface of
the Sun which is only nine thousand nine
hundred forty-one degrees let's go to
the hottest of the hot no not Miami but
close the hottest temperature on earth
was actually human-made it was created
in 2012 by scientists at CERN's Large
Hadron Collider inside the collider led
ions were smashed into each other going
99 percent of the speed of light the
resulting plasma that formed had an
absolutely mind-blowing temperature of
nine point nine trillion degrees
Fahrenheit that's 250 thousand times
hotter
in the center of the Sun whoa keep your
chocolate away from that if you don't
want it to melt hey if you learn
something new today then give this video
a like and share it with a friend and
here are some other cool videos I think
you'll enjoy just click to the left or
right and remember stay on the bright
side of life